This video, we're going to get a REST API
testing overview.
We'll start with the existing Student Grade Book REST API.
It's very similar to the Student Grade Book app
that we worked on in the previous set of videos.
REST API was created by a previous employee,
but it does not have any test. Yikes!
And our job, right, or our task
is to will actually add tests for the REST API.
So we will learn how to create tests
for a Spring Boot REST API.
Good stuff.
Here's the technical stack of the existing application.
It's based on Spring Boot.
They make use of Spring Data JPA.
And there's also a Spring RestController.
And here's an overview of the existing code.
Just a partial overview.
We have our GradeBookController.
It's a RestController.
And then we also have a model,
CollegeStudent, Grade, Gradebook, et cetera.
The model is the same set of classes
that we've seen in the previous set of videos.
So nothing's changed.
We're simply putting a REST API
onto the existing application.
And here's our existing application architecture.
We have our GradeBookController, which is a RestController,
communicates to the StudentAndGradeService.
We have our DAOs talking to the backend database.
So you've seen a lot of this stuff before.
The only thing that's different now
is the actual GradeBookController or the RestController
on the left hand side.
And as usual, we have Unit Tests, Integration Test,
and we'll create more tests here for the REST API.
All righty. So this all looks really exciting.
Let's go ahead and swing into our IDE,
and let's get this project set up.
All righty. So we're in our IDE right now.
Let's go ahead and open up some starter files.
I'll move in here,
and I'll select the directory spring-boot-unit-testing-main.
And then I'll select the directory 4.0-starting-project.
And then I'll go ahead and open up this given directory.
All right. So this should load up our project here,
4.0-starting-project.
I'll move into the directories here
on the source, main, java.
We see our package, com luv2code springmvc.
I'll expand the package here for controller,
and this is our GradeBookController.
We'll go ahead and open up this file.
And we'll notice the here at the top
that it's a RestController.
All right. That's for our REST API.
And this is code that was created by the previous employee.
Let me expand the window here for a second
with our normal code here
of Autowiring in the different dependencies.
And then we set up a RequestMapping here for a get request,
and this simply returns a list of students.
Notice here, we're not returning a view.
We're simply returning the list directly,
and it'll send it back as JSON.
We also have another GetMapping here
to gets student information for a specific student ID.
We have a PostMapping here to create a new student.
We have coding there for DeleteMapping to delete a student.
Also another PostMapping here for creating a grade.
And a couple of things that are different here
in the REST API that in the event that we have an error
will actually throw a custom exception,
a StudentOrGradeNotFoundException.
I'll show you the coding for that in a second.
But effectively here, once we throw an exception,
we can handle that exception,
send that data back as JSON.
And here's a bit more here on the ExceptionHandlers.
So we can handle an exception.
We create that error response.
We set the status message and timestamp accordingly.
And we can handle different types of exceptions here
in this example.
So that's kind of the basic coding here for the REST API.
Now let's take a look at the exceptionhandling package,
those new items that I showed you.
We have a normal data transfer object here,
StudentOrGradeErrorResponse,
that simply has three fields, status, message and timestamp.
And we have a constructor here
in the normal getter and setters
for this data transfer object.
Then the actual exception itself
is a StudentOrGradeNotFoundException.
It extends runtime exception,
and again, the normal constructors here.
All right, so that's kind of the basic coding there
for the controller and the exception handling.
Now, a lot of the other stuff is the same.
So models, all of these model classes here
for CollegeStudent, Grade and Gradebook,
all the same stuff that we saw in the previous videos.
And the similar thing here for repository,
HistoryGrades, MathGradeDao, so on.
The same that we saw earlier.
And also the StudentAndGradeService,
this is all the same coding
that we had in the previous videos.
Now moving down to resources,
we have our props, our test properties.
The three items that are new here,
insertData, insertGrade, overRideData,
these are files that are used by our test.
And then moving down here,
we can take a look at our StudentAndGradeService test.
That's the only test that's in this project.
And this is very similar
to the test that we created earlier.
So we created our, injected our DAOs.
We edit the different SQL scripts,
all the BeforeEach and AfterEach, and so on.
So this code is very similar
to what we had in the previous set of videos.
Let's go ahead and run this test
just to make sure it runs and works properly.
All righty, this looks really good.
I see all green here,
so that means that the test passed.
So this is really good.
Now our task is to actually go ahead
and create a test for the REST API,
because we don't have that test right now.
And we'll actually build that test
over the next set of videos.
All righty. So this looks really good so far.